[RF-DOCS]Active Record Validations [ci skip] (#9)
Ridhwana/rails: guides/source/active_record_validations.md

> 

Reviewer: The intro sentence seems a little bit long-winded....not sure what will be better, something like "This guide covers Active Record validation options that you can use to validate Ruby objects before saving them to the database."?

```

```irb
irb> Person.new(name: "John Doe").valid?
=> true
irb> Person.new(name: nil).valid?
=> false
```

> 

Reviewer: For the paragraph below:
1. The use of "our" and "us" reads odd. It can as simple as  "The `Person` is not valid without a `name` attribute.?
2. The 2nd sentence is not true now. With the use of `new` neither are persisted to the database without `save` right?

Author: Good catch, thank you!

> convenient to test and maintain. Rails provides built-in helpers for common

Reviewer 2: I'm taking a bit of an interest in the wording that we choose to explain things at the moment, thinking about second-language English speakers. With that in mind - do you think 'They can be used with any database' rather than 'database agnostic' might be simpler here? Not really a major one, just a thought!

  users with immediate feedback as they use your site.
* Controller-level validations can be tempting to use, but often become
  unwieldy and difficult to test and maintain. Whenever possible, it's a good
  idea to keep your controllers simple, as it will make working with your
  application easier in the long run.

It's the opinion of the Rails framework that model-level validations are the
most appropriate in most circumstances, however there may specific cases where
you want to complement it with alternate validations.

### Validation Triggers

There are two kinds of Active Record objects - those that correspond to a row

> inside your database and those that do not. When you create a new object, using

Reviewer 2: Hard to avoid, I know, but I'm wondering if the use of create and `new` close together here may be a bit misleading somehow. Wonder if build is a better representation of what we're doing?

```suggestion
inside your database and those that do not. When you build a new object, using
```

the `new` method, the object does not get saved in the database as yet.
Once you call `save` on that object then will it be saved into the appropriate

> database table. Active Record uses an instance method called `new_record?` to

Reviewer 3: I'm wondering if `persisted?` is a more self-explanatory method in this case?
```suggestion
database table. Active Record uses an instance method called `persisted?` (and its inverse `new_record?`) to
```

  users with immediate feedback as they use your site.
* Controller-level validations can be tempting to use, but often become
  unwieldy and difficult to test and maintain. Whenever possible, it's a good
  idea to keep your controllers simple, as it will make working with your
  application easier in the long run.

> It's the opinion of the Rails framework that model-level validations are the
> most appropriate in most circumstances, however there may specific cases where
> you want to complement it with alternate validations.

Reviewer: I am not sure if we personify Rails framework and give it opinions in any other guides :) but in this case it could be simplify like this?
```suggestion
Rails recommends using model-level validations in most circumstances, however there may be specific cases where you want to complement them with alternate validations.
```

We can see how it works by looking at some `bin/rails console` output:

```irb
irb> p = Person.new(name: "Jane Doe")

> => #<Person id: nil, name: "Jane Doe", created_at: nil, updated_at: nil>

Reviewer: Would it make sense to also add parallel calls to `persisted?` as well?

```

> Creating and saving a new record will send an SQL `INSERT` operation to the

Reviewer 3: "Creating" is somewhat confusing here to me. Does it mean instantiation an new object or calling `Person.create`?
As the example above saves a new record, can we remove it?
```suggestion
Saving a new record will send an SQL `INSERT` operation to the
```

Author: Yes makes sense!

=> false
```

Saving a new record will send an SQL `INSERT` operation to the
database, whereas updating an existing record will send an SQL `UPDATE`
operation. Validations are typically run before these commands are sent to the
database. If any validations fail, the object will be marked as invalid and
Active Record will not perform the `INSERT` or `UPDATE` operation. This helps
to avoid storing an invalid object in the database. You can choose to have
specific validations run when an object is created, saved, or updated.

WARNING: While validations usually prevent invalid data from being saved to the
database, it's important to be aware that not all methods in Rails trigger
validations. Some methods allow changes to be made directly to the database
without performing validations. As a result, if you're not careful, it’s

> possible to bypass validations and save an object in an invalid state.

Reviewer: Would it make sense to link to the "skipping validations" section below here to serve as an example of which methods do this?

* [`update!`][]

> The bang versions (e.g. `save!`) raise an exception if the record is invalid.

Reviewer 3: Maybe expand on the bang method explanation?
```suggestion
The bang versions (methods that end with an exclamation mark, like `save!`) raise an exception if the record is invalid.
```

* [`upsert`][]
* [`upsert_all`][]

> Note that `save` also has the ability to skip validations if `validate:

Reviewer 2: We have a few paragraphs like this starting with 'Note' but we aren't using the 'NOTE:' formatting in this guide as much relative to some of the others I've read recently. Do you think it's worth wrapping some of these in the yellow note box?

[`upsert`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Persistence/ClassMethods.html#method-i-upsert
[`upsert_all`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Persistence/ClassMethods.html#method-i-upsert_all

> ### Checking Validity

Reviewer 3: I think this is a good change, describing the use-case instead of the methods.
Maybe we should add this to the guidelines as well?

Author: Done ✔️

Before saving an Active Record object, Rails runs your validations, and

> if these validations produce any errors, then Rails will not save the object.

Reviewer 3: If was going to suggest using another word than `errors` as this might confuse novices with programming errors.
However, `errors` are heavily used in the validations implementation, so that ship has sailed.
Not sure if it makes sense use "validation errors" instead (maybe just for the first occurences)?
```suggestion
if these validations produce any validation errors, then Rails will not save the object.
```

irb> p.errors.objects.first.full_message
=> "Name can't be blank"

> irb> p = Person.new

Reviewer: This is a long code block. Maybe a comment above this line to separate the example might help readability? And perhaps naming the `p` to something else, as that variable is declared in line 236 and we are re-declaring it here?

[`invalid?`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveModel/Validations.html#method-i-invalid-3F
[`valid?`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Validations.html#method-i-valid-3F

> ### Errors

Reviewer 3: Maybe we can be more descriptive here?
```suggestion
### Inspecting Errors
```

Or, as `add` is also described. Although this is maybe too ambiguous?
```suggestion
### Handling Errors
```

Author: I'm thinking Inspecting and Handling Errors.

> => true

Reviewer 2: I see what it's doing, but I wonder if this example needs a think. It feels slightly weird because we mention above about returning an array of error messages, and then the example shows us checking the contents of the array rather than showing how how that array is retrieved. It's almost like there's a step missing in the middle. Maybe we either need to flesh out the paragraph above explaining the example use case, or make it show returning the array of error messages?

Author: Good catch! Thank yoo! I updated the example and also made the explanation clearer.

```

The
[`errors.add`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveModel/Errors.html#method-i-add)
method creates an error object using the attribute, error type, and options,
which is useful for defining specific error scenarios in custom validators.

```
class Person < ApplicationRecord
  validate do |person|
    errors.add :name, :too_short, message: "is not long enough"
  end
end
```

> To read about validation errors in greater depth refer to the [Working with Validation

Reviewer 2: This feels like it perhaps could be wrapped in a 'NOTE'?

> 

Reviewer 2: Sorry this is so far away from the line in question... but on 298 the phrase 'and this is associated with the attribute being validated' feels a bit vague - do you think it's worth rewording/clarifying/expanding?

Author: ✅

> 

Reviewer 2: I also think it could be worth adding 'Active Record offers many pre-defined validation helpers **(as detailed below)**'  so that we know coded examples and more information is coming. I was a bit confused at first as to why this section was quite vague - normally we're into some code sooner.

```ruby
class Person < ApplicationRecord

>   validates :terms_of_service, acceptance: { message: 'must be checked' }

Reviewer 3: Maybe "accepted"?
```suggestion
  validates :terms_of_service, acceptance: { message: 'must be accepted' }
```

```ruby
class Person < ApplicationRecord

>   validates :terms_of_service, acceptance: { message: 'must be accepted' }

Reviewer: I think "must be accepted" is the default and this example is trying to show how to change the default message. So something else like this?
```suggestion
  validates :terms_of_service, acceptance: { message: 'must be agreed to' }
```

NOTE: This check is performed only if `email_confirmation` is not `nil`. To require
confirmation, make sure to add a presence check for the confirmation attribute

> (we'll take a look at [the `presence` check](#presence) later on in this guide):

Reviewer 2: the formatting looks a little strange here obviously because `presence` is code - worth only having that word as the link text and not 'the' and 'check' as well?

These options are all supported:

| Option                      | Description                                                              | Default Error Message                       |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------- |
| `:greater_than`             | Specifies the value must be greater than the supplied value.             | "must be greater than %{count}"             |
| `:greater_than_or_equal_to` | Specifies the value must be greater than or equal to the supplied value. | "must be greater than or equal to %{count}" |
| `:equal_to`                 | Specifies the value must be equal to the supplied value.                 | "must be equal to %{count}"                 |
| `:less_than`                | Specifies the value must be less than the supplied value.                | "must be less than %{count}"                |
| `:less_than_or_equal_to`    | Specifies the value must be less than or equal to the supplied value.    | "must be less than or equal to %{count}"    |

> | `:other_than`               | Specifies the value must be other than the supplied value.               | "must be other than %{count}"               |

Reviewer: Nice! The table is much easier to read.

The default error message for this helper is _"is not included in the list"_.

As an alternative to a traditional enumerable (like an Array), you can supply a
proc, lambda, or symbol that returns an enumerable. If the enumerable is a
numerical, time, or datetime range, then the test is performed with

> Range#cover?, otherwise with include?. When using a proc or lambda, the instance

Reviewer 2: does Range#cover? and include? belong in `` e.g. `include?`?

under validation is passed as an argument.

> Here’s an example using a proc:

Reviewer 2: I know a lot of beginners (and upwards actually!) that struggle with procs because they just don't come across them massively often, or they don't know that that's what they're called when they do.

I wonder if we want to add a tiny pointer here (maybe better worded than I did below!!)

```suggestion
Here’s an example using a proc: (the part from the -> onwards)
```

Author: @OughtPuts Thanks for the feedback!✨ I totally agree that procs can be complex. However, I'd like to leave the explanation as is and let readers look up more details if needed. The focus here is on demonstrating how dynamic validations work in Rails, and it becomes a tough balance to provide sufficient Rails-specific details while avoiding side dives into Ruby techniques.

If you strongly disagree we can chat about it some more!

```ruby
class Coffee < ApplicationRecord
  validates :size, inclusion: { in: ->(coffee) { coffee.available_sizes } }

  def available_sizes
    %w(small medium large extra_large)
  end
end
```

In this example, the `available_sizes` method returns an array of sizes that
should be included. The proc passed to the `:in` option dynamically evaluates
this list based on the instance of `Coffee` being validated.

### `exclusion`

> Naturally, the opposite of `inclusion` is `exclusion`.

Reviewer 2: There's obviously a lot of duplication between the `inclusion` and `exclusion` sections. To keep the guide concise, do you think we need both, or is it possible that we could note that X things also apply to the `exclusion` method etc.?

Author: I've taken a stab at mering these sections into one.

> the value if it is a `String`.

Reviewer 2: What do you think about replacing 'cast' with 'converted to' for simplicity here?

the value if it is a `String`.

NOTE: By default, `numericality` doesn't allow `nil` values. You can use
`allow_nil: true` option to permit it. For `Integer` and `Float`
columns empty strings are converted to `nil`.

The default error message when no options are specified is _"is not a number"_.

There are also many options that can be used to add constraints to acceptable
values:

| Option                      | Description                                                              | Default Error Message                       |

> | --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------- |

Reviewer: This table repeats the information above. Would it make sense to point the reader to the other section by linking it here?

Author: I'm assuming you're referring to the `comparison` helper table, but please correct me if I'm wrong. I think that since they're different helpers that can be read independently and are not related, I'd prefer to keep them separate. In addition, this table in `numericality` has a few more options than the one in `comparison`

| `:other_than`               | Specifies the value must be other than the supplied value.               | "must be other than %{count}"               |
| `:in`                       | Specifies the value must be in the supplied range.                       | "must be in %{count}"                       |
| `:odd`                      | Specifies the value must be an odd number.                               | "must be odd"                               |
| `:even`                     | Specifies the value must be an even number.                              | "must be even"                              |

### `presence`

This helper validates that the specified attributes are not empty. It uses the
[`Object#blank?`][] method to check if the value is either `nil` or a blank
string - that is, a string that is either empty or consists of whitespace.

```ruby
class Person < ApplicationRecord
  validates :name, :login, :email, presence: true
end
```

To check that an association is present, you'll need to test that the associated
object is present, and not the foreign key used to map the association. Testing

> the association will help you to determine that the foreign is not empty and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the association will help you to determine that the foreign key is not empty and
```

end
```

NOTE: If you want to ensure that the association is both present and valid, you
also need to use `validates_associated`. More on that in the

> [validates_associated section](#validates-associated)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[validates_associated section](#validates-associated).
```

```

WARNING. This validation does not create a uniqueness constraint in the
database, so a scenario can occur whereby two different database connections create two
records with the same value for a column that you intended to be unique. To avoid
this, you must create a unique index on that column in your database.

In order to add a uniqueness database constraint on your database, use the
[`add_index`][] statement in a migration and include the `unique: true` option.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> WARNING. Note that some databases are configured to perform case-insensitive

Reviewer 3: This currently doesn't show up as a warning:
```suggestion
WARNING: Note that some databases are configured to perform case-insensitive
```

[`validates_with`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveModel/Validations/ClassMethods.html#method-i-validates_with

Validation Options
-------------------------

There are several common options supported by the validators. These options are:

* [`:allow_nil`](#allow-nil): Skip validation if the attribute is `nil`.
* [`:allow_blank`](#allow-blank): Skip validation if the attribute is blank.
* [`:message`](#message): Specify a custom error message.
* [`:on`](#on): Specify the contexts where this validation is active.
* [`:strict`](#strict-validations): Raise an exception when the validation
  fails.
* [`:if` and `:unless`](#conditional-validations): Specify when the validation
  should or should not occur.

NOTE: Not all of these options are supported by every validator, please refer to
the API documentation for [`ActiveModel::Validations`][].

[`ActiveModel::Validations`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveModel/Validations.html

> ### `:allow_nil`

Reviewer: Comment for "message" section, line 1065: It mentions the "i18n gem", should we link that? Not clear what it refers to.

end
```

To translate error messages, see the [I18n guide](i18n.html#error-message-scopes).

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we also link to the i18n gem where we mention it in Section 3.3?

end
```

> To translate error messages, see the [I18n guide](i18n.html#error-message-scopes).

Reviewer: Comment for the "allow_blank" section irb code block, line 1047 (Sorry Github won't allow tagging there as it didn't change). Would it make sense to add a line that returns `false` from `valid?` for contrast the examples that return `true`?

Author: ✅

=> {:email=>["has already been taken"], :age=>["is not a number"], :name=>["can't be blank"]}
```

You can read more about use-cases for `on:` in the [Custom Contexts section](#custom-contexts).

Conditional Validations
-----------------------

> Sometimes it will make sense to validate an object only when a given predicate

Reviewer 2: In the interest of striving for simplest possible language...

```suggestion
Sometimes it will make sense to validate an object only when a given condition is met
```

The validation only runs when all the `:if` conditions and none of the `:unless`
conditions are evaluated to `true`.

Strict Validations
------------------

You can also specify validations to be strict and raise

> `ActiveModel::StrictValidationFailed` when the object is invalid.

Reviewer 2: Do you think it's worth adding a sentence here giving an example of why you might want a validation to be strict vs not?

Author: Added a paragraph to describe this.

The validation only runs when all the `:if` conditions and none of the `:unless`
conditions are evaluated to `true`.

Strict Validations
------------------

You can also specify validations to be strict and raise
`ActiveModel::StrictValidationFailed` when the object is invalid.

```ruby
class Person < ApplicationRecord
  validates :name, presence: { strict: true }
end
```

```irb
irb> Person.new.valid?
ActiveModel::StrictValidationFailed: Name can't be blank
```

There is also the ability to pass a custom exception to the `:strict` option.

```ruby
class Person < ApplicationRecord
  validates :token, presence: true, uniqueness: true, strict: TokenGenerationException
end
```

```irb
irb> Person.new.valid?
TokenGenerationException: Token can't be blank
```

> ### Listing Validators

Reviewer: This is a good addition

See the section above for more details about [`:on`](#on).

### Custom Contexts

You can define your own custom validation contexts for callbacks. This can be
useful when you want to perform validations based on specific scenarios, or you
want to group certain callbacks together and run them in a specific context. In
these cases you may be tempted to [skip callbacks](active_record_callbacks.html#skipping-callbacks)
altogether, but defining a custom context can sometimes be an alternative
structured approach. You will need to combine a `context` with the `on` option
to define a custom context for a callback.

A common scenario for custom contexts is when you have a multi-step form where
you want to perform validations per step. You can define custom context for each

> step of the form:

Reviewer: Maybe moving this paragraph up will help readability? Start with the use case (of multi-step forms) so the reader has that in their first before explaining the things in the 1st paragraph. The 1st paragraph reads long-winded and a little repetitive, I had to read it a couple times. But the 2nd paragraph helps frame the point better.

Author: Thanks, I shifted some of the content around to read better.

messages for the given attribute, each string with one error message. If there
are no errors related to the attribute, it returns an empty array.

> This method is only useful _after_ validations have been run, because it only
> inspects the errors collection and does not trigger validations itself. It's
> different from the `ActiveRecord::Base#invalid?` method explained above because
> it doesn't verify the validity of the object as a whole. It only checks to see
> whether there are errors found on an individual attribute of the object.

Reviewer: What the 'it' pronoun refers to is not clear. Maybe this?
```suggestion
This method is only useful _after_ validations have been run, because it only
inspects the errors collection and does not trigger validations itself. It's
different from the `ActiveRecord::Base#invalid?` method explained above because
it doesn't verify the validity of the object as a whole. It only checks to see
whether there are errors found on an individual attribute of the object.
```
```suggestion
This method is only useful _after_ validations have been run, because it only
inspects the `errors` collection and does not trigger validations itself. It's
different from the `ActiveRecord::Base#invalid?` method explained above because this method doesn't verify the validity of the object as a whole. `errors[]` only checks to see
whether there are errors found on an individual attribute of the object.
```

> This method is only useful _after_ validations have been run, because it only
> inspects the errors collection and does not trigger validations itself. It's
> different from the `ActiveRecord::Base#invalid?` method explained above because
> it doesn't verify the validity of the object as a whole. It only checks to see
> whether there are errors found on an individual attribute of the object.

Reviewer: What the pronoun 'it' refers to is not clear.
```suggestion
This method is only useful _after_ validations have been run, because it only
inspects the `errors` collection and does not trigger validations itself. It's
different from the `ActiveRecord::Base#invalid?` method explained above because
this method doesn't verify the validity of the object as a whole. `errors[]` only checks to see
whether there are errors found on an individual attribute of the object.
```

Displaying Validation Errors in Views
-------------------------------------

> Once you've defined a model and added validations, you'll want to display an
> error message when a validation fails during the creation of that model via a
> web form.

Reviewer: could we simplify the sentence like this? Since the validation can fail at times other than "creation of the model" maybe no need to mention that?
```suggestion
Once you've defined a model and added validations, you'll want to display an
error message to the user via a web form when a validation fails.
```

> Since every application handles this kind of thing differently, Rails does not
> include any view helpers to help you generate these messages directly. However,
> due to the rich number of methods Rails gives you to interact with validations
> in general, you can build your own. In addition, when generating a scaffold,
> Rails will put some generated ERB into the `_form.html.erb` that displays the
> full list of errors on that model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since every application handles this kind of thing differently, Rails does not
include any view helpers to help you generate these messages directly. However,
due to the rich number of methods Rails gives you to interact with validations
in general, you can build your own. In addition, when generating a scaffold,
Rails will put some generated ERB into the `_form.html.erb` that displays the
full list of errors on that model.
```
```suggestion
Since every application handles displaying validation errors differently, Rails does not
include any view helpers to help you generate these messages. However, Rails gives you a rich number of methods to interact with validations in general that you can use to build your own. In addition, when generating a scaffold,
Rails will put some generated ERB into the `_form.html.erb` that displays the
full list of errors on that model.
```

> Since every application handles this kind of thing differently, Rails does not
> include any view helpers to help you generate these messages directly. However,
> due to the rich number of methods Rails gives you to interact with validations
> in general, you can build your own. In addition, when generating a scaffold,
> Rails will put some generated ERB into the `_form.html.erb` that displays the
> full list of errors on that model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since every application handles displaying validation errors differently, Rails does not
include any view helpers for generating these messages. However, Rails gives you a rich number of methods to interact with validations that you can use to build your own. In addition, when generating a scaffold,
Rails will put some generated ERB into the `_form.html.erb` that displays the
full list of errors on that model.
```
